# python-challenge

## Module 3 Challenge
For this assignment I analyzed data from 2 different CSV files using Python programming. Each challenge required me to extrapolate different results according to the dataset.

## PyBank
For this part of the assignment, I analyzed a financial dataset in the form of a CSV file with two columns, "Date" and "Profit/Losses." I was instructed to find the total number of months included, the net total "profit/losses" across the entire period, the average changes in "profit/losses" month to month, the greatest increase in profits, and the greatest decrease in profits.

I begin by importing the modules I will need to set the path to the file and properly read the CSV file. Then, I set variables to count the months, the net total, values to find the current greatest increase and decrease in profits, as well as their respective months, the previous month, the current profit/lossses change, and a list to contain all the profit/loss changes. I then set the path to the file and open the file. After, I use the CSV module to read the file, and skip the header before looping through each row of data.

For each row in the loop, I add one to the total months counter and add the row's "profit/losses" value to the net total variable. I then calculate the change in profit/losses by subtracting the row's "profit/losses" value from the previous value (this part only runs if previous value contains a value to prevent it from running on the first row) and appending that value to the list of changes.

After, I check to see if the current change in profit is positive or negative. If it is positive, I check it against the variable for the current greatest increase in profits to see if it is greater. If so, I change the value for the current greatest increase to the current change. If it is negative, I instead check it against the current greatest decrease in profits to see if it is less than that, and change the variable to the current change if so. For both conditions, I also save the current row's "Month" value to use in the analysis. The conditions also account for if the variables for greatest increase and decrease are empty. After this, I set the current row's "profit/losses" value to the previous value variable and move on to the next row.

Once the code is finished looping through each row in the file, I exit the block of code reading the file and begin the analysis by calculating the average changes in profits and losses with the list of changes. I then print the findings to the terminal, including total months, net total, average changes, greatest increase in profits, and greatest decrease in profits (with both of their months). Finally, I set the path to the text file and open the file to write to it, where I write the same findings to the file as I printed to the terminal.

## PyPoll
For this part of the assignemnt, I analyzed a CSV file of voting ballots for a small, rural town's election to find the total number of votes, the candidates who received votes, the percent of votes they won, the total number of votes they won, and the winner of the election. To start, I imported the modules needed and defined variables for the total votes as well as a dictionary to keep track of each candidate and their votes.

Similar to the previous assignment, I set the path for the file and open the file, followed by reading the file with the CSV module and skipping the header before beginning to loop through each row of data. For each row, I add one vote to the total votes counter. Then, I check to see if the candidate's name is not already a key in the dictionary, that way each candidate's name is added only once and the condition is skipped for that candidate's votes thereafter. Finally, I add one vote to that candidate in the dictionary before moving on to the next ballot vote.

After the loop, I calculate the winner's vote total using the "max()" function on the candidates dictionary's values. I then begin to print the results to the terminal. For the results for each candidate, I loop through the items in the candidates dictionary, calculate the percentage of votes for that candidate, and print that candidate's results to the terminal. In that loop, I also look for the candidate by matching the value to the winner's vote total calculated earlier. I assign the key (or name) of the winner's vote total value to a variable and print it to the terminal after the loop. Finally, I open the text file and write the same election results to the file.